[DOCS] Add Content for Connecting to a PostgreSQL Data Asset (#9356)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/cloud/connect/connect_postgresql.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Connect GX Cloud to PostgreSQL'
title: 'Connect GX Cloud to PostgreSQL'
description: Connect GX Cloud to a PostgreSQL Data Source.
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

> To validate data stored in a PostgreSQL data warehouse from GX Cloud, you must add the GX Agent to your deployment environment. The GX Agent acts as an intermediary between GX Cloud and PostgreSQL and allows you to securely access and validate your data in GX Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate data stored in a PostgreSQL database from GX Cloud, you must add the GX Agent to your deployment environment. The GX Agent acts as an intermediary between GX Cloud and PostgreSQL and allows you to securely access and validate your data in GX Cloud.
```

New to GX Cloud and not sure that it's the right solution for your organization? See [Try GX Cloud](../try_gx_cloud.md).

## Prerequisites

- You have a [GX Cloud Beta account](https://greatexpectations.io/cloud) with [Admin or Editor permissions](../about_gx.md#roles-and-responsibilities).

- You have a PostgreSQL database, schema, and table.

- To improve data security, GX recommends creating a separate PostgreSQL user for your GX Cloud connection.

> - You know your PostgreSQL access credentials.

Reviewer: This line seems a little redundant with the above line

Author: @allensallinger you'd be surprised how easily users are confused if you don't include information that we view as redundant.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @allensallinger, the line is unnecessary.

> - You have a [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/download/). To improve data security, GX recommends using a separate user service account to connect to GX Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To improve data security, GX recommends creating a separate PostgreSQL user for your GX Cloud connection.
```

> - You have stopped all local running instances of the GX Agent.

Reviewer 2: Why is this a pre-req?
It shouldn't matter if an agent is running or not unless you need to set new postgres specific data source ENV vars.

Author: @Kilo59 this was added after a discussion with @allensallinger. Asking users to stop all running instances of the GX Agent reduces the likelihood of issues.

## Prepare your PostgreSQL environment

> You can use an existing PostgreSQL warehouse, but GX recommends creating a separate warehouse for GX Cloud to simplify cost management and optimize performance.

Reviewer: For any mention of `PostgreSQL warehouse` please replace it with `PostgreSQL database`.

Author: @allensallinger all instances of `PostgreSQL warehouse` have been updated to `PostgreSQL database`

- [Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started.html)

- [Microsoft Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/containers/aks-start-here)

- [Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs)

- Any Kubernetes cluster version 1.21 or greater which uses standard Kubernetes

<Tabs
  groupId="connect-PostgreSQL"
  defaultValue='docker'
  values={[
  {label: 'Docker', value:'docker'},
  {label: 'Kubernetes', value:'kubernetes'},
  ]}>
<TabItem value="docker">

1. Download the GX Agent Docker container image from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/greatexpectations/agent).

2. After configuring your cloud service to run Docker containers, run the following Docker command to start the GX Agent: 

   ```bash title="Terminal input"
   docker run -it \
   -e GX_CLOUD_ACCESS_TOKEN= YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN \ 
   -e GX_CLOUD_ORGANIZATION_ID= YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID \  
   greatexpectations/agent:latest
    ```
    Replace `YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID` with the values you copied previously.

> 3. Optional. If you created a temporary file to record your user access token and Organization ID, delete it.

Reviewer 2: This seems like an unnecessary step to include in this doc

Author: @Kilo59 This has been debated in previous edits, and this shows due diligence that GX is encouraging users to eliminate any record of tokens that are stored insecurely. It doesn't hurt to keep it.

```sql
   CREATE ROLE gx_ro WITH LOGIN PASSWORD <your_password>;
   GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE <your_database> TO gx_ro;
   GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO gx_ro;
   GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES in SCHEMA public TO gx_ro;
```

Replace `your_password` and `your_database` with your own values.

## Get your GX Cloud access token and organization ID

You'll need your access token and organization ID to set your access credentials. Don't commit your access credentials to your version control software.

1. In GX Cloud, click **Settings** > **Tokens**.

2. In the **User access tokens** pane, click **Create user access token**.

3. In the **Token name** field, enter a name for the token that will help you quickly identify it.

4. Click **Create**.

5. Copy and then paste the user access token into a temporary file. The token can't be retrieved after you close the dialog.

6. Click **Close**.

7. Copy the value in the **Organization ID** field into the temporary file with your access token and then save the file. 

   GX recommends deleting the temporary file after you set the environment variables.

## Deploy the GX Agent

> You deploy and run the GX Agent within your deployment environment. You can deploy the GX Agent container in any environment where you can run Docker container images or create Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You deploy and run the GX Agent within your deployment environment. You can deploy the GX Agent container in any environment where you can run Docker container images.
```

Containers are what run inside of a Kubernetes cluster. If someone sees a helm chart or Kubernetes manifest the only place they can deploy that is a Kubernetes cluster. The phrasing just seems kind of off since Kubernetes is at a way higher level up the stack than a container.

- Any Kubernetes cluster version 1.21 or greater which uses standard Kubernetes

<Tabs
  groupId="connect-PostgreSQL"
  defaultValue='docker'
  values={[
  {label: 'Docker', value:'docker'},
  {label: 'Kubernetes', value:'kubernetes'},
  ]}>
<TabItem value="docker">

1. Download the GX Agent Docker container image from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/greatexpectations/agent).

2. After configuring your cloud service to run Docker containers, run the following Docker command to start the GX Agent: 

   ```bash title="Terminal input"
   docker run -it \
   -e GX_CLOUD_ACCESS_TOKEN= YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN \ 
   -e GX_CLOUD_ORGANIZATION_ID= YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID \  
   greatexpectations/agent:latest
    ```
    Replace `YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID` with the values you copied previously.

3. Optional. If you created a temporary file to record your user access token and Organization ID, delete it.

4. Optional. Run the following command to use the GX Agent image as the base image and optionally add custom commands:

   ```bash title="Terminal input"
   FROM greatexpectations/agent
   RUN echo "custom_commands"

>    ```

Reviewer: This is great!

New to GX Cloud and not sure that it's the right solution for your organization? See [Try GX Cloud](../try_gx_cloud.md).

## Prerequisites

- You have a [GX Cloud Beta account](https://greatexpectations.io/cloud) with [Admin or Editor permissions](../about_gx.md#roles-and-responsibilities).

- You have a PostgreSQL database, schema, and table.

- To improve data security, GX recommends creating a separate PostgreSQL user for your GX Cloud connection.

- You know your PostgreSQL access credentials.

- You have stopped all local running instances of the GX Agent.

## Prepare your PostgreSQL environment

Run the following code to create and assign the `gx_ro` role and allow GX Cloud to access to all `public` schemas and tables on a specific database:

```sql
   CREATE ROLE gx_ro WITH LOGIN PASSWORD <your_password>;
   GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE <your_database> TO gx_ro;
   GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO gx_ro;
   GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES in SCHEMA public TO gx_ro;

>    ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA public GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO gx_role;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA public GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO gx_ro;
```

Reviewer: I think this is the last comment for me. Small change and we should be good.

```

> Replace `your_password` and `your_database` with your own values. `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA public GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO gx_role;` is optional and gives the user with the `gx_role` role access to all future tables in the defined schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `your_password` and `your_database` with your own values. `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA public GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO gx_ro;` is optional and gives the `gx_ro` user access to all future tables in the defined schema.
```

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

To validate data stored in a PostgreSQL database from GX Cloud, you must add the GX Agent to your deployment environment. The GX Agent acts as an intermediary between GX Cloud and PostgreSQL and allows you to securely access and validate your data in GX Cloud.

New to GX Cloud and not sure that it's the right solution for your organization? See [Try GX Cloud](../try_gx_cloud.md).

## Prerequisites

- You have a [GX Cloud Beta account](https://greatexpectations.io/cloud) with [Admin or Editor permissions](../about_gx.md#roles-and-responsibilities).

- You have a PostgreSQL database, schema, and table.

- To improve data security, GX recommends creating a separate PostgreSQL user for your GX Cloud connection.

- You know your PostgreSQL access credentials.

- You have stopped all local running instances of the GX Agent.

## Prepare your PostgreSQL environment

Run the following code to create and assign the `gx_ro` role and allow GX Cloud to access to all `public` schemas and tables on a specific database:

```sql
   CREATE ROLE gx_ro WITH LOGIN PASSWORD <your_password>;
   GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE <your_database> TO gx_ro;

>    GRANT CREATE TEMPORARY ON DATABASE <your_database> TO gx_role;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I don't think we need the `CREATE TEMPORARY`
